Over our lifetimes, we've all contributed to climate change.

Actions, choices and behaviors will have led to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions.

But it does have the potential to make us feel guilty when we think about decisions we might have made around where to travel to, how often and how, about the energy that we choose to use in our homes or in our workplaces, or quite simply the lifestyles that we lead and enjoy.

But we can also turn that thought on its head, and think that if we've had such a profound but a negative impact on our climate already, then we have an opportunity to influence the amount of future climate change that we will need to adapt to.

So we have a choice.

We can either choose to start to take climate change seriously, and significantly cut and mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions, and then we will have to adapt to less of the climate change impacts in future.

Alternatively, we can continue to really ignore the climate change problem.

But if we do that, we are also choosing to adapt to very much more powerful climate impacts in future.

As people who live in countries with high per capita emissions, we're making that choice on behalf of others as well.

But the choice that we don't have is a no climate change future.

Over the last two decades, our government negotiators and policymakers have been coming together to discuss climate change, and they've been focused on avoiding a two-degree centigrade warming above pre-industrial levels.

That's the temperature that's associated with dangerous impacts across a range of different indicators, to humans and to the environment.

So two degrees centigrade constitutes dangerous climate change.

So if we think about an extreme weather event that might happen in some part of the world, and if that happens in a part of the world where there is good infrastructure, where there are people that are well-insured and so on, then that impact can be disruptive.

It can cause upset, it could cause cost.

It could even cause some deaths.

But if that exact same weather event happens in a part of the world where there is poor infrastructure, or where people are not well-insured, or they're not having good support networks, then that same climate change impact could be devastating.

It could cause a significant loss of home, but it could also cause significant amounts of death.

And what's immediately striking about this is that emissions have been growing exponentially.

And all the way through, during all of these meetings and many others as well, emissions have continued to rise.

And if we focus on our historical emission trend in recent years, and we put that together with our understanding of the direction of travel in our global economy, then we are much more on track for a four-degree centigrade global warming than we are for the two-degree centigrade.

Now, because the sea has a greater thermal inertia than the land, the average temperatures over land are actually going to be higher than they are over the sea.

The second thing is that we as human beings don't experience global average temperatures.

That's the kind of thing we're going to experience under a four-degree global average temperature scenario.

And the problem with these extremes, and not just the temperature extremes, but also the extremes in terms of storms and other climate impacts, is our infrastructure is just not set up to deal with these sorts of events.