Everything is covered in invisible ecosystems made of tiny lifeforms: bacteria, viruses and fungi.

Our desks, our computers, our pencils, our buildings all harbor resident microbial landscapes.

Our bodies are home to trillions of microbes, and these creatures define who we are.

The microbes in your gut can influence your weight and your moods.

The microbes on your skin can help boost your immune system.

The microbes in your mouth can freshen your breath, or not, and the key thing is that our personal ecosystems interact with ecosystems on everything we touch.

So, for example, when you touch a pencil, microbial exchange happens.

And I believe the answer is yes.

I think we're doing it right now, but we're doing it unconsciously.

I'm going to share data with you from one aspect of my research focused on architecture that demonstrates how, through both conscious and unconscious design, we're impacting these invisible worlds.

You'll see broad bacterial groups, and if you look at the shape of this pink lobe, it tells you something about the relative abundance of each group.

So at 12 o'clock, you'll see that offices have a lot of alphaproteobacteria, and at one o'clock you'll see that bacilli are relatively rare.

If you look inside the restrooms, they all have really similar ecosystems, and if you were to look inside the classrooms, those also have similar ecosystems.

But if you look across these space types, you can see that they're fundamentally different from one another.

We know that microbes are dispersed around by people and by air.

If you look at the microbes in one of the air handling units in this building, you'll see that they're all very similar to one another.

And if you compare this to the microbes in a different air handling unit, you'll see that they're fundamentally different.

The rooms in this building are like islands in an archipelago, and what that means is that mechanical engineers are like eco-engineers, and they have the ability to structure biomes in this building the way that they want to.

And that is exactly what we found.

If you look at classrooms right adjacent to one another, they have very similar ecosystems, but if you go to an office that is a farther walking distance away, the ecosystem is fundamentally different.

And when I see the power that dispersal has on these biogeographic patterns, it makes me think that it's possible to tackle really challenging problems, like hospital-acquired infections.

When you walked into those rooms, they smelled really bad, and our data suggests that it had something to do with leaving behind the airborne bacterial soup from people the day before.

In these rooms, the air tracked the outdoor air relatively well, and when Charlie saw this, he got really excited.

It's called BLIS, and it's been shown to both ward off pathogens and give you good breath.