As we grow up, we're often encouraged to think of fear as a weakness, just another childish thing to discard like baby teeth or roller skates.

We know how fear feels, but I'm not sure we spend enough time thinking about what our fears mean.

As we grow up, we're often encouraged to think of fear as a weakness, just another childish thing to discard like baby teeth or roller skates.And I think it's no accident that we think this way.

Neuroscientists have actually shown that human beings are hard-wired to be optimists.So maybe that's why we think of fear, sometimes, as a danger in and of itself.

It's easiest to see this link between fear and the imagination in young children, whose fears are often extraordinarily vivid.

Our fears provoke in us a very similar form of suspense.

It's a kind of unintentional storytelling that we are all born knowing how to do.

And fears and storytelling have the same components.

They have the same architecture.Our fears also tend to contain imagery that can be every bit as vivid as what you might find in the pages of a novel.

Fears also have suspense.

In other words, our fears make us think about the future.

And humans, by the way, are the only creatures capable of thinking about the future in this way, of projecting ourselves forward in time, and this mental time travel is just one more thing that fears have in common with storytelling.

So if we think of our fears as more than just fears but as stories, we should think of ourselves as the authors of those stories.But just as importantly, we need to think of ourselves as the readers of our fears, and how we choose to read our fears can have a profound effect on our lives.

Once in a while, our fears can predict the future.

And maybe if we all tried to read our fears, we too would be less often swayed by the most salacious among them.

Read in the right way, our fears are an amazing gift of the imagination, a kind of everyday clairvoyance, a way of glimpsing what might be the future when there's still time to influence how that future will play out.Properly read, our fears can offer us something as precious as our favorite works of literature: a little wisdom, a bit of insight and a version of that most elusive thing -- the truth.
